What's new 8.12 (#4612)
elastic/security-docs: docs/whats-new.asciidoc

{security-guide-all}/7.9/whats-new.html[7.9]

// NOTE: The notable-highlights tagged regions are re-used in the Installation and Upgrade Guide. Full URL links are required in tagged regions.
// tag::notable-highlights[]

[float]

> == Retrieval-augmented generation supported in Elastic AI Assistant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Retrieval-augmented generation for alerts in Elastic AI Assistant
```
There's already RAG for ES|QL so I think this additional specificity is warranted

Elastic AI Assistant now supports {security-guide}/security-assistant.html#rag-for-alerts[retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) for alerts]. Using this feature, you can provide information about multiple alerts to AI Assistant, so that it can answer a broader scope of questions relating to alerts in your environment.

[float]
== Detection rules and alerts enhancements

The following enhancements have been added to detection rules and alerts:

[float]
=== JSON diff for Elastic prebuilt rule updates

> When Elastic updates a prebuilt detection rule, you can examine the latest version before you {security-guide}/prebuilt-rules-management.html#update-prebuilt-rules[update] to it. The rule details flyout in **Rule Updates** displays a side-by-side JSON comparison of the rule's **Base version** (what you currently have installed) and the **Update version** that you can choose to install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Elastic updates a prebuilt detection rule, you can examine the latest version before you {security-guide}/prebuilt-rules-management.html#update-prebuilt-rules[update] it. The rule details flyout in **Rule Updates** displays a side-by-side JSON comparison of the rule's **Base version** (what you currently have installed) and the **Update version** that you can choose to install.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.12/prebuilt-rules-update-diff.png[Prebuilt rule comparison,80%]

[float]
=== Alert suppression supported for threshold rules

{security-guide}/alert-suppression.html[Alert suppression] now supports the threshold detection rule type. You can use it to reduce the number of repeated or duplicate detection alerts created by a threshold rule.

[float]
=== Assign users to alerts

You can now {security-guide}/alerts-ui-manage.html#assign-users-to-alerts[assign users to alerts] that you want them to investigate, and manage alert assignees throughout an alert's lifecycle. Assigned alerts are filterable, and you can find assignees by adding the `kibana.alert.workflow_assignee_ids` field to the Alerts table or by opening an alert's details.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.12/alert-assigned-alerts.png[Alert assignees in the Alerts table,80%]

[float]
== Timeline enhancements

The following enhancements have been added to Timelines:

[float]
=== Multiple UI and UX enhancements to Timeline

> {security-guide}/timelines-ui.html[Timeline] now opens as a modal, requires you to manually save changes, and has an option to save changes as a new Timeline. In addition, Timeline has undergone significant UI changes. For example, the query builder is now collapsible, which allows you to have more space for Timeline results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{security-guide}/timelines-ui.html[Timeline] now opens as a modal, requires you to manually save changes, and has the option to save changes as a new Timeline. Additional UX improvements have been also introduced. For example, the query builder is now collapsible, which allows you to have more space for Timeline results.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.12/timeline-ui-updated.png[Updated Timeline UI]

[float]
=== Feature flag added for the {esql} tab

> You can now remove the {security-guide}/timelines-ui.html#esql-in-timeline[**{esql} tab**] by editing your {cloud}/ec-manage-kibana-settings.html#ec-manage-kibana-settings[{kib} user settings] and adding the `xpack.securitySolution.enableExperimental: ["timelineEsqlTabDisabled"]` feature flag.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, just one more tiny correction (to correct my earlier correction) here:

```suggestion
You can now remove the {security-guide}/timelines-ui.html#esql-in-timeline[**{esql}**] tab by editing your {cloud}/ec-manage-kibana-settings.html#ec-manage-kibana-settings[{kib} user settings] and adding the `xpack.securitySolution.enableExperimental: ["timelineEsqlTabDisabled"]` feature flag.
```

> You can now remove the {security-guide}/timelines-ui.html#esql-in-timeline[{esql} tab] by editing your {cloud}/ec-manage-kibana-settings.html#ec-manage-kibana-settings[{kib} user settings] and adding the `xpack.securitySolution.enableExperimental: ["timelineEsqlTabDisabled"]` feature flag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now remove the {security-guide}/timelines-ui.html#esql-in-timeline[**{esql} tab**] by editing your {cloud}/ec-manage-kibana-settings.html#ec-manage-kibana-settings[{kib} user settings] and adding the `xpack.securitySolution.enableExperimental: ["timelineEsqlTabDisabled"]` feature flag.
```

[float]
=== Default {esql} query removed from the {esql} tab

> The default {esql} query was removed from the {esql} tab, for increased tab performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default {esql} query was removed from the **{esql}** tab, for increased tab performance.
```

[float]
== Exclude cold and frozen tiers from analyzer queries

> You can now exclude cold and frozen tier data from visual event analyzer queries, to increase analyzer performance. You can do this by turning on the `securitySolution:excludeColdAndFrozenTiersInAnalyzer` {security-guide}/advanced-settings.html#exclude-cold-frozen-tiers[advanced setting].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now exclude cold and frozen tier data from visual event analyzer queries to increase analyzer performance. You can do this by turning on the `securitySolution:excludeColdAndFrozenTiersInAnalyzer` {security-guide}/advanced-settings.html#exclude-cold-frozen-tiers[advanced setting].
```
